Assessment Task 4
Research Essay Draft

Topic
Sweatshop

Question
1.There have been claims that sweatshop workers in developing/under-developed
countries are being exploited. What are the problems that sweatshop workers face?
How can these problems be addressed?

Name: Ng Wei Yuen
Student ID: 17109182
Class: English 2-30
Date of Submission: 24 September 2018


Introduction
According to Merriam-webster.com (n.d), sweatshop is defined as “a shop or factory in which employees work for long hours at low
wages and under unhealthy conditions” (para. 1).

__
Sweatshop- “a shop or factory in which employees work for long hours at low
wages and under unhealthy conditions” (Merriam-webster.com, n.d., para.1)
? violates at least 2 labour laws" (dosomething, n.d.)
Occur in two situations (Turner & Kirchhof, 2018; South China Morning Post,
2003):
? Underprivileged and underage workers are forced into cheap labour in
an effort to survive and support their families.
? Working conditions and regulations are ignored and rebuked by
employers

--
Brief problem introduction
Sweatshops exploitation
o Harsh working environmental conditions
o Abuse and discrimination at work
o Neglect of labour regulations - violation of human rights - child labour,
underpay, neglect of workers’ welfare, anti-union and strikes

--
Thesis Statement (Complete sentence)
? This essay investigates the abuse and exploitation of sweatshop workers in less
economically developed countries as well as the problems a sweatshop worker
may face from work daily, while suggesting and evaluating the possible solution
to these problems.

__
Situation


__
Introductory Statement (introduce the 2 situations): (Context of the problem)
? Exploitation of underprivileged and underaged labourers in poverty.
? Harsh working conditions and tragedies due to ignorance of labour laws and
regulations

--
First Body Paragraph (First Situation):
Topic Sentence:
? Children are often exploited and forced into child labour in sweatshops in less
economically developed countries
Explanation:
? Children are forced into child labour due to
? Famine and War
? Poor education system and high dropout rates
? Poverty - plunging economy and lack of parental and financial support
? High demand for cheap labour
Evidence 1 & Explanation:
? Children as young as 5 years old are forced to leave their schools and home in
order to work in low paying jobs in Congo (Turner & Kirchhof, 2018)
? Children below the legal working age are still employed and exploited
as labourers around the world.
? According to Compassion International (n.d.), young people in less
economically developed countries will drop out of school to work before their
fifteenth birthday due to
¦ Financial pressures and constraints
? Unable to afford basic needs
? A child refugee named Françoise is forced to flee home and work due to war
(Compassion International, n.d.)
? Children working, don’t have time for schooling (Hunter, 2015)
? Violation of human rights
Evidence 2 & Explanation:
? Children who have been working as child labourers since young are more likely
to be end up with underpaying jobs. (Compassion International, n.d.)
? Less opportunities and alternative jobs other than cheap labour available
for people living in poorer countries
¦ Trapped in the poverty cycle.
? Children are vulnerable to human trafficking (Citi, n.d)
Linking Sentence:
Child labour - often resorted to when facing livelihood and financial crisis

--
Topic Sentence:
? Sweatshops workers are forced to work under inhumane work circumstances
while getting abused and neglected of their employment benefits usually due to
a lack of compliance towards the labour laws and regulations.
Explanation:
? Harsh working conditions
? Forced overtime and long working hours
? Unsafe and unhygienic work environment
? Aggression and harassment towards workers who complained or took
breaks
? Tragedies and disasters - poor factory management
? Factories collapse due to overloading and overcrowding
? Factory fire due to improper factory design leading to fire trap
? Neglected employment benefits
? Production is prioritised over welfare of workers
¦ No sick leaves allowed
¦ Lack of holidays
¦ Workers are not allowed to form or take part in union or a strike
¦ Lack of inspections for compliance of labour laws
Evidence 1 & Explanation:
? According to Hunter (2015), unregistered sweatshops are not inspected
? Does not comply with labour laws and regulations
? able to freely continue exploit workers with below minimum age
? Women forced to take abortion to avoid maternity leave (South China Morning
Post, 2003)
? Pregnant women are fired because they hamper production
Evidence 2 & Explanation:
? Collapse of Rana Plaza factory killed 1100 workers in Bangladesh (Hunter,
2015). While factory fire trapped and killed 300 workers (Forester, 2013)
? Sweatshop factories commonly does not follow safety regulations
¦ lack of emergency exits and fire extinguishers (Hunter, 2016)
¦ Poor building maintenance and overcrowding
? 40 sweatshop workers die in China nationwide everyday from workplace
accidents (Wiseman, 2001)
Linking Sentence:
? Sweatshop workers mistreatment usually arises when labour laws and
regulations are ignored by their employers and supervisors.

Problem

Solution




References